	https://www.britannica.com/science/receptive-field/The-nonclassical-receptive-field

Typically, responses summate over a region greater than the classical receptive field; that region is referred to as the summation area or summation field.

Determinar RF en el brazo de acuerdo a estimación, comparar con espalda. 
quizás existen en la misma cantidad promedio, de ahí la respuesta similar. 

ej: en promedio hay 300 RF para brazo y 200 para espalda, y abarcamos 150 en ambas zonas. 

Variations of Hair Follicle Size and Distribution in Different Body Sites

follicles per cm2 on average. 
forearm = 18
back = 29. 

In the first study, the HFD of the forearm skin was successfully calculated in 55 out of 58 participants samples, yielding a mean number of 37.4 ± 10.0 hair follicles per cm2
 (range: 17–59)


Receptive Field properties of unmylinated tactile afferentes in the human skin

Field properties of individual units. 
Forearm:
mean size mm2 : 14.7 +- 10.5
mean N° sensitive spots  3.8 +- 2.2

High standard deviations were found, especially on the forehead and back. (These areas belong to the seborrheic
regions of the body, where small vellus hair follicles are found together with large sebaceous follicles.)



Relación directa entre la percepción de pleasant y la cantidad de fibras estimuladas? 
--> tamano del pincel
Pleasantness of touch in human glabrous and hairy skin: Order effects on affective ratings
The bristles were 22 mm long, and the width of the brush was 20 mm

Experimenter 1 delivered touch stimuli to the participant's palm and volar forearm, using a

soft goat hair brush, with a width of 44mm
(5 cm wide goat hair artists’ brush)


Vellus hairs are thin, short and unpigmented and cover the whole body, except for the glabrous skin.

The area of hairy skin innervated by a single C-LTMR, which defines
its cutaneous receptive field, is 0.2-0.4 mm2

 In summary, virtually all zigzag hair follicles are innervated
by both C-LTMR and Aδ-LTMR lanceolate endings; Awl/auchene hairs are triply
innervated by Aβ RA-LTMR, Aδ-LTMR, and C-LTMR lanceolate endings; Guard hair
follicles are innervated by both Aβ RA-LTMR longitudinal lanceolate endings and Merkel
cell-associated Aβ SA1-LTMRs 


The smallest ﬁeld, illustrated in Fig. 4 A, consisted of one single sensitive spot covering a skin area of 1 mm2 . On the other hand, the largest and most complex ﬁeld of the sample, consisted of at least nine spots, scattered over an area of 35 mm2. Means and
SD for ﬁeld size were 14.7 and 10.5 mm2 using 5 mN indentation force 

Anyway, the data of Table 1 yielded a highly signiﬁcant correlation between number of
spots and ﬁeld size (r == 0.96, indentation force 5 mN). A regression analysis indicated that ﬁeld size increased by 4–5 mm2 per sensitive spot.


notas calculos
maximo para curvas: 
max speed back 67.23021452113112
max speed forearm 78.70703811027452


SOSPECHA DE SPATIAL SUMATION

Spatial variation in sensitivity as a factor in measurements of spatial
summation of warmth and cold

The  present  results  support  the  hypothesis  that topographic variations in sensitivity can significantly influence measurements of spatial summation in the
temperature  senses. 

 We therefore suggest (and hereafter use) the term spatial enhancement to describe the psycho-physical  effect  of  stimulus  size  on  temperature perception

Topography of sensitivity may therefore
figure more importantly in spatial enhancement over
a range of small stimulus areas like those tested here,
whereas neural  summation may play  a more domi-
nant  role  for  larger  areas.